---
inFeed: false
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-03T19:37:40.632Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-03T19:37:37.224Z'
title: About me
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-03-1c39952c-72ad-4a69-afe1-e0ff7ffaa189.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: about-me/index.html
_type: WebPage

---
**The world according to the Spirit.**

It took me at least 30 years of my life to search for answers to my questions. Writing a book forces you to be logically consistent and to explain your train of thought and development of ideas fittingly. To write a chapter of an elaborate book like this requires an enormous mental concentration and peace of mind as well as the command of a good deal of background knowledge. I have followed scientific news and have read many books to take my knowledge to a higher level. I am a generalist and an autodidact, who has been inspired by the ideas of the Enlightenment. The era of enlightenment gave us freedom and equality of citizens and the Trias Politica, being the separation of legislative, executive and judiciary powers, as well as the separation of church and state. The era of enlightenment gave us Uomo Universalis and the possibility to increase knowledge and skills through empiricism and spiritual and intellectual enrichment.

In the last decade my knowledge had reached a satisfactory and high enough level to meet

**the final challenge: relating the concept of the trinity of matter -- spirit -- antimatter to the latest scientific theories of quantum mechanics, relativity and cosmology.**

Encouraged by my wife, I actually started to write this book. I was busy doing other things. I knew I would only be taken seriously if I could develop a credible theory of unification. It was hard labour, but I am proud of the result, including the role played by the spirit.

This book could cause quite a stir in the world. It is a good time for humanity to seek new ways.

**The world according to the Spirit  
offers tools to improve human theories and behavior in lots of different areas.**